Welcome to a new chapter on Web Engineering.
This chapter is about Automatic Browser Testing with the de facto industry standard Selenium.
The Learning objectives of this chapter are:
1. Understanding the Selenium Tool Suite.
The Selenium Tool Suite includes a number of different tools.
- Selenium IDE, an integrated development environment, that allows recording, editing, and debugging test scripts in the browser.
- Selenium Builder: offers easy access to cloud-based services like GitHub, Sauce Labs etc.
- Server Grid: a server infrastructure that allows running an arbitrary number of Selenium tests in parallel on multiple machine, on different OS, and on different browser instances.
Selenium WebDriver: originally two projects, taken over by the W3C to create a W3C recommendation for a WebDriver API.
The core developers of the Selenium Suite are Jason Huggins of ThoughWorks and Simon Steward of Google.
James Huggins developed the Selenium IDE in 2004 as a JavaScript framework.
Simon Steward developed the driver architecture for arbitrary browsers.
You will learn how to perform functional GUI tests using Firefox with the plugins Selenium IDE and Selenium Builder.
The interactions of the user with the application in the browser are recorded,
then, the script can be edited and assertions can be included.
Assertions verify that the state of the application conforms to what is expected or required.
For example, make sure that a particular text or element is showing on a page to test of the end to end requirement are met (acceptance tests).
You will then learn how to install such tests on a server farm, a "server grid".
Today, such a server farm is cloud-based, because the resources of a local machine are not sufficient.
Cloud-based services like Sauce Labs run thousands of virtual machines to test dozens of OS, dozens of browser versions of dozens of manufacturers
(Google, Microsoft, Mozilla, Opera etc.) in parallel with only one script.
In this course, we can only do this locally.
However, we will not use the script that is generated with Selenium IDE in the browser,
but we will create it manually using the WebDriver API that is currently being worked on as a W3C recommendation.
We will use Apache JMeter.
We will provision JMeter with some additional plugins,
especially with Firefox Web Driver Sampler.
Then, we will create functional test using commands of the WebDriver API.
While the test plan is running, Apache JMeter will start a local instance of Firefox and execute the script.
This is called "driving the browser", i.e.,
the browser is not controlled via Javascript but from outside via an API,
that is implemented by the browser manufacturers (Google, Mozilla, Microsoft etc).
In this chapter we do this by the example of Firefox.
As an outlook on the offshore Scrum project, we will deal with a cloud-based Continuous Integration system.
We will make the resources of the project publicly available in a GitHub repo.
We will also place the test scripts we build with Selenium Builder into this repo.
With each commit into this repository, the build and test cycle will be triggered.
Travis CI is a cloud-based Continuous Integration Framework. It monitors if there are changes in a repo (GitHub, SourceForge or others).
It registers if there is a push or a pull request, and if this is the case, the test scripts stored in GitHub will be executed in OpenSauce.
The first learning objective was getting to know the different tools of Selenium Tool Suite and to test them on a small scale.
2. Know the Test Automation Pyramid.
This section will be more theoretical.
The focus will be on thinking about test automation in the various phases of development.
Mike Cohn is one of the core developers of the scrum method.
He defined the test automation pyramid.
We will take a closer look at this pyramid and the criticism aimed at it,
i.e. that today the pyramid is turned upside-down.
Like the model on which it is based, the pyramid has a broad foundation, where the unit tests are located that are supposed to test up to 100% of the functionality.
That is, not only the public functions, but also the private once. The aim is to approach a code coverage of 100%.
In reality, this will not be the case.
In other layers of the pyramid, we have the Web services that need to be tested.
From integration test and acceptance test up to end-to-end user tests at the top of the pyramid.
There should only be a few that guarantee the acceptance of the complete system.
Today, it is rather vice versa, hardly anyone develops JUnit tests, but relies on browser-based functional testing of critical paths, critical application scenarios.
and perhaps does this extensively, so that you will find the foundation at the top.
A pyramid turned upside-down.
Let's get to the Homework Assignment:
Your task is to record functional aspects of arsnova.eu, ideally a complete use case as described in the manual, in Selenium Builder.
Then, you will start a local Firefox browser instance via Apache JMeter, start the ARSnova start page via the WebDriver API and query the page for assertive elements.
The next task is to use loadosophia.org for test documentation. Loadosophia is a free service for storing and analyzing performance test results.
We will try this service on our homework assignment #1 of the last chapter.
You can generate all graphs, key performance indicators etc. by simple export from Apache JMeter.
The result will be a free report offered as a PDF file.
To summarize:
Your submission will consist of:
A Selenium Builder Test Script in .json format, that the peer reviewers will load, run and test in their Firefox instance.
A JMeter Test Plan that proves that your are the author of the document you will submit as PDF
And finally, the Loadosophia Test Report.
The deadline for submission is July 7, 23:59 CEST.
Here, finally, the symbol for this chapter, the Test Automation Pyramid.
You are expected to read critical texts on this pyramid and to think about why the pyramid shouldn't be turned upside-down.